Notes and highlights for
The Hard Thing About The Hard Things 
Horowitz, Ben 

Introduction
Highlight (yellow) - Location 83
That’s the hard thing about hard things — there is no formula for dealing with them .
Chapter 1: From Communist to Venture Capitalist
Highlight (yellow) - Page 4 · Location 152
“ Some of you guys will come out here and you just won’t be serious . You’ll get here and start shooting the shit , talking shit , bullshittin ’ , not doing shit , and just want to look good in your football shit . If you do that , then you know what ? Turn your shit in . ” He went on to elaborate on what was unacceptable : “ Come late to practice ? Turn your shit in . Don’t want to hit ? Turn your shit in . Walk on the grass ? Turn your shit in . Call me Chico ? Turn your shit in . ”
Highlight (yellow) - Page 5 · Location 157
Former secretary of state Colin Powell says that leadership is the ability to get someone to follow you even if only out of curiosity . I was certainly curious to see what Coach Mendoza would say next .
Highlight (yellow) - Page 7 · Location 193
Whatever the case , when I opened the door to greet our dates , Felicia’s award - winning green eyes immediately fixed on the welt under my eye . Her first impression ( told to me years later ) : “ This guy is a thug . Coming here was a big mistake . ” Fortunately , neither of us relied on our first impressions . We have been happily married for nearly twenty - five years and have three wonderful children .
Highlight (yellow) - Page 7 · Location 205
Andre and Roselie had been brought in by the venture capitalists as the “ professional management team . ” Unfortunately , they understood very little about the products or the technology , and they sent the company off in one crazy direction after the next . This was the first time that I started to understand the importance of founders running their companies .
Note - Page 8 · Location 208
Keet
Highlight (yellow) - Page 11 · Location 257
Interviewing with Marc was like no other job interview I’d ever had . Gone were questions about my résumé , my career progression , and my work habits . He replaced them with a dizzying inquiry into the history of email , collaboration software , and what the future might hold . I was an expert in the topic , because I’d spent the last several years working on the leading products in the category , but I was shocked by how much a twenty - two - year - old kid knew about the history of the computer business .
Chapter 2: “I Will Survive”
Highlight (yellow) - Page 22 · Location 435
No matter who you are , you need two kinds of friends in your life . The first kind is one you can call when something good happens , and you need someone who will be excited for you . Not a fake excitement veiling envy , but a real excitement . You need someone who will actually be more excited for you than he would be if it had happened to him . The second kind of friend is somebody you can call when things go horribly wrong — when your life is on the line and you only have one phone call . Who is it going to be ? Bill Campbell is both of those friends .
Highlight (yellow) - Page 29 · Location 558
“ No matter what we say , we’re going to get killed . As soon as we reset guidance , we’ll have no credibility with investors , so we might as well take all the pain now , because nobody will believe any positivity in the forecast anyway . If you are going to eat shit , don’t nibble . ”
Highlight (yellow) - Page 36 · Location 671
“ Gentlemen , I’ve done many deals in my lifetime and through that process , I’ve developed a methodology , a way of doing things , a philosophy if you will . Within that philosophy , I have certain beliefs . I believe in artificial deadlines . I believe in playing one against the other . I believe in doing everything and anything short of illegal or immoral to get the damned deal done . ”
Highlight (yellow) - Page 36 · Location 676
If they wanted to play , they had to move on that schedule or withdraw immediately . The Michael Ovitz artificial deadline was in full effect . We knew that we might have to go past it , but Michael gave us confidence that going past the deadline was a better move than not having one .
Highlight (yellow) - Page 38 · Location 683
I called Bill Campbell to tell him the good news : The deal was signed and we would be announcing it in New York on Monday . He replied , “ Too bad you can’t go to New York and be part of the announcement ; you’ll have to send Marc . ” I said , “ What do you mean ? ” He said , “ You need to stay home and make sure everybody knows where they stand . You can’t wait a day . In fact , you can’t wait a minute . They need to know whether they are working for you , EDS , or looking for a fucking job . ” Damn . He was right . I sent Marc to New York and prepared to let people know where they stood . That small piece of advice from Bill proved to be the foundation we needed to rebuild the company . If we hadn’t treated the people who were leaving fairly , the people who stayed would never have trusted me again . Only a CEO who had been through some awful , horrible , devastating circumstances would know to give that advice at that time . 
